1. cgroups
      cgroups and namespaces are powerful tools for managing resources and isolating processes in Linux systems.
      cgroups, or control groups, are a Linux kernel feature that enables the management and limitation of system resources like CPU, memory, and network bandwidth, among others. We can use cgroups to set limits on these resources and distribute them among different groups of processes.

2. namespaces
      Namespaces, isolate various process elements, creating separate environments that prevent them from accessing or affecting other processes or the host system. Different types, such as mount, PID, and network, isolate different process aspects. In addition, they are often combined with cgroups to provide isolation and resource management for containers.
      The key feature of namespaces is that they isolate processes from each other. On a server where you are running many different services, isolating each service and its associated processes from other services.

3. environment
      In computer operating systems, an environment is an area that contains information about the behaviour of programs and applications.        Linux environment variables are used by applications to get information about the environment, and each environment variable is a variable with a name and an associated value.
  some examples of environment variables in Linux:
      USER – This points to the currently logged-in user. 
      HOME – This shows the home directory of the current user.
      SHELL – This stores the path of the current user's shell, such as bash or zsh.

4. Network protocols
      Network protocols are a set of rules outlining how connected devices communicate across a network to exchange information easily and safely. 
      - TCP/IP(Transmission Control Protocol/ Internet Protocol)
These are a set of standard rules that allows different types of computers to communicate with each other. The IP protocol ensures that each computer that is connected to the Internet is having a specific serial number called the IP address. TCP specifies how data is exchanged over the internet and how it should be broken into IP packets. It also makes sure that the packets have information about the source of the message data, the destination of the message data, the sequence in which the message data should be re-assembled, and checks if the message has been sent correctly to the specific destination. The TCP is also known as a connection-oriented protocol.

      - HTTP(Hyper Text Transfer Protocol)
This protocol is used to transfer hypertexts over the internet and it is defined by the www(world wide web) for information transfer. This protocol defines how the information needs to be formatted and transmitted. And, it also defines the various actions the web browsers should take in response to the calls made to access a particular web page. Whenever a user opens their web browser, the user will indirectly use HTTP as this is the protocol that is being used to share text, images, and other multimedia files on the World Wide Web. 

      - HTTPS(HyperText Transfer Protocol Secure)
HTTPS is an extension of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). It is used for secure communication over a computer network with the SSL/TLS protocol for encryption and authentication. So, generally, a website has an HTTP protocol but if the website is such that it receives some sensitive information such as credit card details, debit card details, OTP, etc then it requires an SSL certificate installed to make the website more secure. So, before entering any sensitive information on a website, we should check if the link is HTTPS or not. If it is not HTTPS then it may not be secure enough to enter sensitive information.

      - TELNET(Terminal Network)
TELNET is a standard TCP/IP protocol used for virtual terminal service given by ISO. This enables one local machine to connect with another. The computer which is being connected is called a remote computer and which is connecting is called the local computer. TELNET operation lets us display anything being performed on the remote computer in the local computer. This operates on the client/server principle. The local computer uses the telnet client program whereas the remote computer uses the telnet server program.
